# Patrick-Swedenborg-Capstone
This project entails a Linux shell written in C.

documentation directory:
There are three separate entities. An overview, outline, and a c file containing a prototype which is the same shell we made in Operating Systems Programming but showcases the idea and inspiration behind this project.

src directory:
This is the source code directory, there are a lot of extra files generated by flex and bison but the three primary source files are scanner.l which is the lexical analyzer, parser.y which is the parser, and logic.c which for now only has the loop which drives the shell but later will have all of the functions that will be called.

2/13/2026 MileStone 1 Progress
Working on learning how to use Flex and Bison to build a more robust REPL for the shell. At the moment the shell has not been started until I learn how to use these tools.

Video for Milestone 1: https://youtu.be/GCt_Zrdfn1Y

3/22/2026 Milestone 2 Progress
Progress on the REPL has been slow and unexpectedly difficult, however after an entire day of deep diving on the internet I have made a massive breakthrough and am now in a position to finish it up. Current progress is a functioning lexical analyzer and parser which are linked to a seperate C file which will handle most of the logic to maintain readibility. As of right now the parser is able to parse for any arbitrary number of arguments entered on the command line and stores them in an array. Current issue is that the parser can only run once so in order to get the main loop of the shell working I will have to refactor the lexical analyzer and parser to allow the parser to be "reentrant". I did attempt to flush the input buffer and restart the lexical analyzer but that simply isn't a working solution. Lastly I did some research on how to utilize an LLM in the shell and will be using a free LLM called Ollama which runs locally and will be enough for what I am looking to do.

Video for Milestone 2: https://youtu.be/pKh1kU8FXv8 
 
4/24/2026 Milestone 3 Progress
The lexical analyzer and parser have been completely finished, they had to be made reentrant which meant the exclusion of global variables and a lot of refactoring. REPL is now functioning as intended with three more planned features which I haven't had the time to get around to yet. Those being piping, file redirection, and signal handling which all together won't be too difficult. Last feature will be AI integration for the user to ask AI to execute commands or run scripts etc. This is the feature I will be spending the most amount of the remaining time on in hopes I can get it functional.

Video for Milestone 3: https://youtu.be/rEPs2ktPMfM
